## Array

The array is one of the most basic data structure. The array is simply a list of data elements. In python an array of animals would look like this:

```python
animals = ["dog", "cat", "cow", "goat", "sheep"]
```
> Above example is a python list. Python doesn't have built-in support for arrays.

On the other hand, array in **Go** ( *Golang* ) would be:

```go
var animals = [5]string{"dog", "cat", "cow", "goat", "sheep"}
```
**or**
```go
// when declaration and definition are in the same place
var animals = [...]string{"dog", "cat", "cow", "goat", "sheep"}
```
**or**
```go
// when using inside a function
animals := [5]string{"dog", "cat", "cow", "goat", "sheep"}
```

### Array size

The size of an array determined by how many items the array holds. In our case the length of animals array is 5, as it has 5 elements.

### Array index

The index of an array item is, it's position in the array expressed in number. Array index starts with the number 0. So, the position of the first element of the array is 0.

> Last item index in an array is always ( $n$ - 1 ). Where the size of array is $n$ ( $n$ represents any integer ).

### Array operational expences

#### Reading

> Required step = 1. Item in any position.

Reding from any position inside an array is 1 step.

#### Searching

> Required steps best = 1, when it's the first item

Searching for a specific item inside an array is 1 step if the item is the first item of the array.

> Required steps worst = $n$, when it's the last item

Searching for an item inside an array is $n$ step in the array if the item is the last item of that array. Where $n$ is the number of total item count inside that array.

#### Insertion

> Required steps best = 1, when it's the last item

When it's the last element of the array no additonal step is needed except the insertion of the data.

> Required steps worst = $n$ + 1, when it's the first item

But, when it's the first element of the array, first we have to move all the elements to the right to make room for the element. That's $n$ steps and then the insertion that's 1 step.

#### Deletion

> Required steps best = 1, when it's the last item

No additional step needed except the deletion.

> Required steps worst = $n$, when it's the first item

In that case, first remove the element, that's 1 step and then move all other remaining elements to left that's $n$ - 1 step (as first element already got removed). Finally we have $n$ - 1 + 1 = $n$ steps.
